1. What do we want to do?

With the passing of the years, it has become clear that changes in climate are negatively affecting our surroundings. Catastrophes such as floods, fires and hurricanes have incremented, presenting the problem of uncertainty and constant concern. As residents of a small tropical island, we’ve experienced some of these catastrophes firsthand in the last few years and although catastrophes are inconsistent, we have to be prepared and alert for whenever nature strikes. To help solve this problem, our team aims to build a low cost system to monitor environmental conditions, detect anomalies and alert users of potential risks. The product consists of an IoT sensing stake, an analytics dashboard and a monitoring WebApp which provides the user with real-time information and analytics of the surrounding areas. We would monitor the surrounding areas of a designated space utilizing sensors to measure air temperature and humidity, water level and soil humidity. The system will monitor the actual conditions and compare against The Weather Channel API to detect anomalies. Once the anomaly is detected a push notification is sent the user alerting them of the potential danger. 

	To achieve this, we are utilizing tools from the IBM repertoire such as Node-Red, Watson IoT Platform and NodeJS. Being hosted by the same IBM services as the IOT platform, the Node-RED dashboard serves as the first graphical interface between the data being read by the sensor and the user. The platform's ease of use ensured we could test crucial aspects of High Stakes with the tools provided for the competition ahead of the sensor's deployment. The web application serves as the easy to use interface to supervise the status of the deployed stakes. It also serves to alert the end users of any anomaly on the data received from the sensors using ReactJS for a cross-platform minimal frontend and the Express framework for the push notification service.

This product aims to impact farmers which lack a monitoring and alert system of their field conditions, as well as small communities and places with constant floods. We interviewed farmers and they spoke of the consequences of climate change on their crops. One of the current system they use is a rudimentary water level meter which only measures rainfall, providing almost no insight in terms of tendencies or changes. With our system we would be able to provide them with real-time tracking and alerting of the dangers to their sorrounding areas which could result in mitigating the loss of produce. We also considered being able to deploy our solution in our university, where annually we get around 6 floods that result in major loss of property for students, specially the cars. Being able to monitor the water level, the system could trigger an alert as soon as the flooding starts and reach students through the push notification. The integration of a mesh network software will be added later on to enable offline communication for the user inside the grid as well as a Tello drone to provide live feed of the potential danger identified.
